<pre>
==========================================

  ____                _____________  ___ 
 / __ \___  ___ ___  / ___/ ___/ _ \/ _ |
/ /_/ / _ \/ -_) _ \/ /__/ (_ / , _/ __ |
\____/ .__/\__/_//_/\___/\___/_/|_/_/ |_|
    /_/                                  

==========================================
</pre>

OpenCGRA is a parameterizable and powerful CGRA (Coarse-Grained Reconfigurable Architecture) generator to generate synthesizable Verilog for different CGRAs based on user-specified configurations (e.g., CGRA size, type of the computing units in each tile, communication connection, etc.). OpenCGRA uses modular design and standardized interfaces between modules. The configurability and extensibility are maximized by its parametrization system to fit in various research and industrial needs.

Installation
--------------------------------------------------------

OpenCGRA requires Python3.7 and has the following additional prerequisites:

 - graphviz, verilator
 - git, Python headers, and libffi
 - virtualenv
 - PyMTL3

The steps for installing these prerequisites and OpenCGRA on a fresh Ubuntu
distribution are shown below. They have been tested with Ubuntu Trusty
14.04.

### Install python3

```
 % sudo apt-get install python3.7
```

### Install graphviz

```
 % sudo apt-get install -y graphviz
```

### Install Verilator

[Verilator][4] is an open-source toolchain for compiling Verilog RTL
models into C++ simulators. OpenCGRA uses Verilator for Verilog import.

```
 % wget https://github.com/cornell-brg/verilator-travisci-cache/raw/master/verilator-travis-4.008.tar.gz
 % tar -C ${HOME} -xzf verilator-travis-4.008.tar.gz
 % export VERILATOR_ROOT=${HOME}/verilator
 % export PATH=${VERILATOR_ROOT}/bin:${PATH}
 % export PYMTL_VERILATOR_INCLUDE_DIR=${VERILATOR_ROOT}/share/verilator/include
 % verilator --version
```

 [4]: http://www.veripool.org/wiki/verilator

### Install git, Python headers, and libffi

We need to install the Python headers and libffi in order to be able to
install the cffi Python package. cffi provides an elegant way to call C
functions from Python, and PyMTL uses cffi to call C code generated by
Verilator. We will use git to grab the PyMTL source. The following
commands will install the appropriate packages:

```
 % sudo apt-get install git python-dev libffi-dev
```

### Create virtual environment

While not strictly necessary, we strongly recommend using [virtualenv][5]
to install PyMTL3 and the Python packages that PyMTL3 depends on.
virtualenv enables creating isolated Python environments. The following
commands will create and activate the virtual environment:

```
 % python3 -m venv ${HOME}/venv
 % source ${HOME}/venv/bin/activate
```

 [5]: https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/

### Install PyMTL3 and Python requirements

```
 % pip install pymtl3
 % pip install --upgrade pip setuptools twine
 % pip install --requirement requirements.txt
 % pip list
```

### Clone OpenCGRA repo

We can now use git to clone the OpenCGRA repo.

```
 % mkdir -p ${HOME}/cgra
 % cd ${HOME}/cgra
 % git clone --depth=50 https://github.com/tancheng/OpenCGRA.git
```

When you're done testing/developing, you can deactivate the virtualenv::

```
 % deactivate
```
